## Our Beliefs

This Statement of Faith draws upon the themes and language of the
creeds of the ancient church and the historic confessions of
Protestantism. It reflects our understanding of the meaning of the
Bible, and offers a concise description of the principles that ground
the teaching and practice of this church.

### Revelation

1\. We believe that God has revealed himself to all people in the
beauty and order of the world and in the testimony of the human
conscience. But God has especially spoken to us in the Bible, the 66
books of the Old and New Testaments. We believe that every word was
inspired by God through human authors, and therefore, as originally
given, its words contain truth without mixture of error. The Bible is
sufficiently clear and understandable in its main teaching, and has as
its main subject the story of God's work of redemption in Christ
Jesus. It is the final and all-sufficient authority for what we should
believe and how we should live.

### God

2\. We believe that there is only one living and true God, the
Creator, Sustainer, and sovereign Ruler of all that is. God is
infinitely holy, perfectly loving, all-powerful, all-knowing, the
righteous Judge and only Savior, and to him all creatures owe the
highest love, reverence and obedience. God is intelligent, spiritual,
and personal, existing eternally in three distinct but equal persons:
the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.

### Humans

3\. We believe that men and women are created by God in his image. All
persons therefore possess dignity and worth inherently and
equally. Humans were created in goodness, designed to care for
creation and submit joyfully to God in loving obedience. But Adam and
Eve, as representatives of the human race, sought to be like God and
fell into sin. As a result, human nature is corrupt on every level,
guided supremely by selfish desires, willfully disobedient to God and
his law, and ever prone to worship creatures rather than the
Creator. On their own, then, humans stand condemned to eternal death,
unable to save themselves.

### Jesus Christ

4\. We believe that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is the only
sufficient mediator between holy God and sinful humanity. Though
himself fully God, he became also fully human, lived a sinless life,
and in obedience to his father suffered and died on a cross to redeem
those under the curse. He was buried, but he rose again three days
later. Through his death he erased sin's penalty for all who believe
in him, and through his resurrection he crushed the power of
death. Now he lives forever at his Father's right hand, interceding
for his people as their great High Priest.

### The Gospel

5\. We believe that salvation comes only by God's grace embraced
through personal faith alone. God is sovereign over salvation,
graciously choosing persons for redemption even before the world
began, not because of any foreseen goodness in them but only because
of his mercy in Christ. As a consequence of his choice, they are
called by regeneration, justified, sanctified, and finally glorified.

6\. We believe that regeneration, or the new birth, is a change of
heart wrought by God's grace through the Holy Spirit, who gives life
to those dead in their sins and enlightens their minds to understand
and to love the Word of God. As new creatures, the regenerate respond
in repentance and faith. Repentance is turning from sin toward God in
loving obedience. Faith is acceptance of the gospel promise and
commitment of the entire person to Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior.

7\. We believe that justification is God's gracious and full acquittal
of all sinners who repent and believe in Christ. It is founded only on
the obedient life and sacrificial death of Jesus, who suffered
punishment as our substitute, not on any good works we have done or
could do. Justification depends upon that righteousness which belongs
only to Christ but is applied to those sinners who rest on him by
faith.

8\. We believe that sanctification is a progressive work carried on in
the hearts of believers by the Holy Spirit, by which they become
conformed to the holiness of God in the image of Christ. Through
divine strength, believers work out their salvation using resources
appointed in Scripture, especially the Word of God, mutual
encouragement, corporate worship, and prayer.

9\. We believe that glorification is the culmination of salvation, the
final, eternal state of all those saved by grace. We believe that
genuine believers will persevere faithfully to the end. Though they
may fall into sin through neglect and temptation, grieving the Spirit
and bringing painful consequences on themselves, they will return
again to repentance and be kept by God through faith unto salvation.

### The Holy Spirit

10\. We believe that the Holy Spirit is the fully divine Spirit of
God, the third person of the Trinity. The Holy Spirit has been sent
into the world to convict sinners, enliven dead hearts, and guide
minds to a true understanding of the Scriptures. He lives in all
believers from the moment of regeneration, and works to produce
assurance of salvation and progress towards Christlikeness. He bestows
the spiritual gifts necessary to fill the needs of the church, and
empowers the church in its worship, evangelism, and service.

### The Church

11\. We believe that the universal church consists of all the redeemed
past and present, and that Jesus Christ is its only authoritative
Head. We believe that this church is made visible in local churches,
where members covenant together to worship God, preach the Word,
celebrate baptism and the Lord's Supper, care for each other through
service and loving discipline, and mobilize for evangelism and
ministries of mercy. The officers of the local church are elders and
deacons.

### Baptism and the Lord’s Supper

12\. We believe that Christ Jesus ordained the practices of baptism
and the Lord's Supper for the good of the church. Christian baptism is
the privilege and responsibility of all who profess faith in
Christ. This immersion in water in the name of the Father, the Son,
and the Holy Spirit is a beautiful sign of our faith in the cleansing
power of Jesus’ death, burial and resurrection, and a visible symbol
of our death to sin and resurrection to a new life of holiness. The
Lord's Supper is a sacred memorial to the sacrifice of Christ offered
once for all, a symbol of our unity in Christ, and a source of
blessing to the souls of those who receive it in faith.

### The Future

13\. We believe that Christ Jesus will return again to earth, that the
dead will be raised, and that he will judge the world in
righteousness. The wicked will pass to eternal punishment, those
righteous in Christ to an eternal life of joy in God's presence. And
God will make all things new.
