## Our Covenant

If some of the language in our church covenant seems dated and clunky,
it's because it is dated and clunky. We borrowed heavily from a
standard covenant used by scores of churches for more than 100
years. In part we chose this language because of its beauty and
precision, and to symbolize our connection to faithful Christians
before us. But we also want the language to seem formal and maybe
unfamiliar. Our commitment to each other isn't casual, and we don't
want our covenant to read that way either. All new members sign this
covenant when they join the church and we read it to each other before
every members meeting to remind ourselves of our commitment to this
body. In short, this covenant defines what it means to be a member of
Trinity.

### Trinity Church Covenant

Having, as we trust, been brought by divine grace to repent and
believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and to give up ourselves to him, and
having been baptized upon our profession of faith, in the name of the
Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit, we do now, relying on His
gracious aid, solemnly and joyfully renew our covenant with each
other.

We will work and pray for the unity of the Spirit in the bond of
peace.

We will live together in Christian love, exercising affectionate care
and watchfulness over each other, encouraging each other to forsake
sin and pursue holiness.

We will commit to pray for each other, to bear each other’s burdens,
to rejoice and mourn together, and to seek mutual discipleship in
community.

We will extend to each other the grace shown to us in Christ Jesus,
remaining slow to take offense and quick to seek reconciliation.

We will seek to live carefully in the world, as those being
transformed by the gospel, showing through our conduct that we have
died to sin and been raised to new life in Christ Jesus.

We will strive to raise those under our care in the knowledge and love
of the Lord, and by word and loving example seek the salvation of our
families and friends.

We will faithfully attend the meetings of the church and work together
to sustain its worship, discipline, and doctrines.

We will devote our time and abilities for the good of the church, and
we will joyfully contribute to the support of the ministry, the
expenses of the church, the relief of the poor, and the spread of the
gospel through all nations.

We will, when we move from this place, notify this congregation and
covenant with another church faithful to the principles of God’s Word.

May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the
fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with us all. Amen.
